For my 3D Model project, I have decided to conduct a model for Orange Calcite which is an extremely abundant mineral that can be found in deposits all over the world mostly notably in Africa and some Asian countries. Orange Calcite is comprised of mainly calcium carbonate which gives it the distinctive "orange" colour. Other colours of this mineral do exist such as white, green, and yellow.

There are many uses for Orange Calcite. One of the most notable uses for this mineral is the ability for it to be cut and sized-down in order to make incredible and elaborate pieces of jewellery such as necklaces and earrings. According to a newspaper article written by the San Diego Union Tribune, documentation has shown that calcite has been used in the era of World War 2 and has been used specifically in machinery and various forms of weaponry. However, more notably, Orange Calcite is used as a spiritual element known to provide an abundance of happiness, the ability to form new and interesting ideas, as well as enhance creativity and reduce depression and anxiety when placed in your home.

Minerals and Gemstones have always been a part of our society for as long as history can take us. Tribal communities have found that gemstones have properties of spiritual being and general wellness associated with them and would often form rituals over them or craft them into various items in order to inhibit it’s healing and spiritual effects. Other societies have used them in the form of weaponry and structural formation as the material is very robust and indeed, very strong. In the context of our lessons in Digital History, we can relate Orange Calcite cultural meaning and how different societies and cultures can view this mineral in different ways (i.e tribal communities viewing calcite for its supposedly healing and spiritual properties, etc..) We as a society make perceptions based off of what we see and what we perceive the main uses for an object to be. Another important item to note in terms of historical purposes are calcite seas existed in Earth's history when the primary inorganic precipitate of calcium carbonate in marine waters was low-magnesium calcite (lmc), as opposed to the aragonite and high-magnesium calcite (hmc) precipitated today. This was a product of the large meteor that struke the face of the earth over a million years ago. Since this meteor has a large repository of calcite, the mineral spread to the Earth's oceanic crust and thus, produced calicte seas. Over time, the calicte seas began to decrease and appeared in caves where small water repositories have been held, thus the reasoning why there can be so many found in limestones caves.

Scanning this object in order to create a 3D Model was proven a challenge time and time again. Being that this is a mineral with many different types of unusual shading and cutting on its surface, making an exact model was extremely difficult and more often than not, did not turn out as planned or did not turn out as anything at all.  A lesson learned in this scenario is to find a more solid object that is more robust and that is able to be scanned fully such as a statue, small artifact, small building, etc… 

I am excited to build upon this model and transition it back into the physical world through the sturcture of this course. I believe that my model is very open to ideas and interpretation as this mineral is used in a variety of different aspects and has a wide range of uses. 

A more in-depth and interesting article about Orange Calcite can be found by viewing this link: https://meanings.crystalsandjewelry.com/orange-calcite/

For Module 2 my original model was not giving me the results I truly wanted. So what I decided to do was to find another mdoel on SketchFab that was calicte related but could offer me more in terms of mixability. It was then I found the canoptic calcite jar head of the Egyptian God Imsety. In Egyptian mythology, Imset (also transcribed Imseti, Amset, Amsety, Mesti, and Mesta) is a funerary deity, one of the Four sons of Horus, who are associated with the canopic jars, specifically the one that contained the liver. Because the Egyptians saw the liver as the seat of human emotion, the depiction of Imset was, unlike his brothers, not associated with any animal but always depicted as a mummified human. Isis is considered his protector, and is himself considered patron of the direction of the south. In ancient Egypt, the liver was thought to be the seat of emotion. A broken heart or death due to excess of emotions was associated with the deity. 

The reason I decided to create this remix with the glass bottle was not to offend or misintepret the meaning, but rather as a promotion to the fact that someone can protect such a vital organ as a liver. It is also very interesting to point out how different socieites value different things and what is considered sacred in each. For example, in the religion of hinduism, cows are considered so sacred that there are strict laws regarding them and what they can and cannot be used for. It is the same thing for the Ancient Egyptians as they worship different parts of the body and internal organs as sacred enough to incase them in these calcite canoptic jars for preservation. 

However, you can argue that the canoptic jar head is, in itself, already remixed. Sicne the material is entirely made out of calcite in which calcite in itself is simply a mineral, this object is remixed in the sense of becoming something new, but still being based off of what is was originally (being the mineral calcite).
A brief overview for furthe information can be found on this website: 
http://www.touregypt.net/featurestories/canopic.htm

Module 3:   
  Module 3 was the msot exciting module for me! I have always been an advocator for the use of video games as a teaching device and I am very glad we got to experience and learn about this in the 3rd module. For myself, I decided to create a visual novel in order to provide the reader a more hands on and immersive experience to my artifact andf remixed object which was completed in modules 1 and 2. I chose a visual novel over everything else because I personally felt that to truly learn history and take as much away from it as we can, it is best to be able to immerse yourself in the experience. A quote that provides evidence to this statement can be found in Pulling Back the Curtain: Writing Hisotry through Video Games by Shawn Graham. Graham states in his online text that after he conducted the experiment for his class with the task of creating a game, a student wrote on his course blog stating "A person can engage with the storyline, the events of the past reconstructed in the game, and when they are able to immerse themselves into the game, they absorb the facts and repercussions of the past without having to be consciously aware of all of the minute details. Thus engaging them on a personal level with the past" (Graham, retrieved 2018).Visual novels achieve this goal by putting the player into the world they the game creators are trying to portray which lines direcly with the quote the student has stated. If one can engage directly with the storyline and the events from the past that the game constructs itself in, we would be able to take far more away from it than we would of if we would have just been reading a textbook.

  Module 3 also gave us the ability to skype with an expert on archeogaming. One of the very interesting things he discussed was how the game Fortnite has so much archeogological aspects do it which is very true as I have played this game many times before and still do to this day. Relating to visual novels however can be found as to how the visual novel can be played out many different ways and althought it serves the primary purpose of provide the reader with an immersive experiece, it can also provide the reader with many other types of experiences and styles through the games direction and how you interact with carious aspects of it. 
  
 Module 4: Module 4 was a very interesting module in that we are tasked with creating some for of augmented reality experience, whether it be another video game like in the previous module or simply something informative. This was interesting because augmented reality is something that has existed for numerous amounts of years, but the capability it has today was not possible many years ago due to the lack of technology. I always believed that augmented reality was the future for not only history, but in many other fields as well such as technologu, and even the educational sector. The idea that you are able to immerse yourself into an experienve truly creates a better understand and appreciation for whatever the user is viewing at that time. For the purposes on my module, I decided to create an augmented reality experience for the module I have been working with which is Orange Calcite. My goals of the augmented experience was to teach the user that this mineral is simply not just a mineral but rather an important historical artifact that has been used and developed in many more palces than the average person may believe. My plan was to not only teach, but surprise pepple with the historical content this mineral has behind it. 
