# readme

For my 3D Scan, I used the Android Application SCANN3D. I was hoping it would work to capture the model correctly but it did not capture it exactly how I envisioned it. I can absolutely bring a physical copy for you to see  of the artifact if the 3D model is not doing justice. 


Update: will attempt to scan again using the model, this time I have a found a solution that allows me to fully walk around the object in order to get a more accurate scan.


Update: tried another scan of the model, however due to lighting it is not seeming to work out, also Regard 3D seems to make my computer (MacBook pro) crash, either due to file being too large or computer just not being able to handle it.

Update: for an alternative I will post a article link where the picture of Orange Calcite can be viewed. Although not the same colour blend and cut that I personally own, it will still serve the purpose of giving the reader a visual of what it is supposed to look like on average.

Module 2 Work: Downloading MeshMixer, will start with this one since professor said it's easier. Glad it's avaliable on Mac!
1. First time opening MehsMixer. Seems like a good UI for someone like me who does not have much graphical design experience, currently going attmept to insert the Orange Calcite model in and see what we can come up with.
2. Model successfully loaded into meshmixer, what I did was put the .obj file of the model and took about 10 seconds to load itself in, currently playing around with the different features, I really like to sculpt tool and feel it would be useful for minor details.. will see later on
3. What I want do is to duplicate this model to serve the purpose as "building blocks" into something else. For some reaosn when I try to duplicate it does not find my .obj file, will look more into this. Found another (slower) way of going about this is by using the mirror tool. It mirrors the model and palces it right next to the original as if if were in an actual mirror, neat stuff!
4. Looking at my model, it does not look too good, I cannot really do much with it to make is look visually sound. So, I am using a model from SketchFab. This model is a calcite jar head with an Egypitian god as the face. This Egyptian god (according to the religion) is used to protect your liver from any evil spirits and negative energy. What makes this relatable to the orange calcite model is that the jar head is actually made from orange calcite because historically, orange calcite has properties of healing and protection. Since this Egyptian god protects specifically the liver, I plan to remix this mode by first constructing a jar for the jar head to be on, then I plan to create a hand stemming from the jar with a typical "stop" gesture. This gesture wuld then be used to sort of "block" a bottle of presumably alchohol from reaching the jar. It seems like a wild idea but there will be a good explanation for this sort of "fun" remix detailed in the paradata. 

5. Successfully added in the arms for this remix. Used the 'MeshMix' button and selected a body with arms stickig out, I then cut out the head of the body and just left the arms and torso and added it to the head of my model. Looks not bad so far, will now attempt to make the hand stretch out into a sort of "blocking" hand gesture. Also downloaded another model of a simple bottle to further add into this meshmix! Loving the results I'm getting!!
6. Loaded the bottle into the meshmixe program. This was done by clicking Import and apprehending the mesh to the existing one so that it does not delete anything. Now onto the step of trying to get the hands of the mesh to be in the place I want them to be, however, so far so good!
7. They say good things come to an end, running into an issue, I'm trying to move the hands around but I just cannot seem to get it! Will look things up and ask around to see what I can do to rectify this on my end
8. Rectified the issue, it still doesnt work the way I wanted it to do but will do for now, simply just moved the glass bottle near the hands using the move tools, will have to do sadly, but at least it still looks decent enough to move forward. 

Module 3 Work
1. I decided it would be best to do a visual novel here to illustrate the history of calcite and its uses. Obviously I will make it exciting and fun during this process. Will use the applicaton RenPy for this which donwloaded on my machine successfully, now that is is installed lets get to the nitty-gritty and get the ball rolling on the module. 
2. What I plan to do is to define 4 characters that will be used for my visual novel, renpy allows you to do this with such ease by simply coding "define" blank as blank, for example define e as" Emily" now everytime I want Emily to say something I just use the letter "e" instead of writing out the full name 50 million times over!!
3. Added my 4 characters successfully, really simple to use so far! Now lets get into making the visual novel
4. Added in the background by coding it as follows, simply type "scene" and then the file name of the image you itend to use and it will show up as the background
5. Finally added in a character persona, by coding "show" then the character file name used. Works wonderfully, so far so good!
 5.5(Why are two characters on top of each other! Help Google!!)
 5.5 resolved: Fixed, all you need to do is code hide and the name of the sprite, easy peasy!
6. I am running into another type of a problem, nothing major but it would make the entire thing visually appealing. I want to know how I can resize the images used (my background for specific) in order to fit the entire screen so I dont see the grey background, but thats what my good friend google is for right???
7. So google stated to use an image resizer but we have another issue. When resizing the image to scale in renpy the image quality looks like an 8-bit Mario Game, very pixelated and impossible to work with. I've tried for many hours to fix this and still is not working, I'm pressed for time so what I plan on doing is just keeping the defaults here as they are perfect quality and are scaled to match renpy's dimensional requirements, sorry :( but I tried everything that I could!
8. I guess I did not try everything! Seems to me that on Mac machines there is a way to resize your image without getting a 3rd party installation. So, lets go about this to get my characters and sceneries in check to see if I can get this rectified. This is done through the Preview app and clicking the resize button. Just be sure it matches with renpy's settings which usually requires an HD version to get the best quality!
9. Image resizing works, so looks like the ball is back on rolling! No other issues so far, time to finish the rest of this story. I feel like im doing a great job!!
10. Perfect! Finally, technology works in my favour! All complete and looks quite good if I do say so myself. This program is so easy to learn and the link Dr. Graham has provided us is super wonderful if you want to get a basic knowledge and run-down of how this program works. Me having a Python background made this much easier as this program is Python based but a bit of a cookie cutter version of it with easier functions so the average individual with little to no coding experience can figure out and make amazing content.
10.5 (Side Note: Not sure why but I wanted to get my remixed model in there, but could not! Whenever I make it PNG, it drastically reduces the quality to a pixeleated form. Now, this is not like the character sprites where I can simply resize the image to fit because there are so many attachments to this. Now, I know there might be a way to do this in Photoshop except I do not have this program and it is very expensive to obtain. I would have really loved for this to work and very dissapointed that I am not able to put this in as it is very key to the module at hand. However, I hope the rest of the module work that I have submitted is suitable) :) 
11. To conclude, easy to use, just requires some third party programming to really get everything you want in there! But nevertheless super easy to use and not much diffculites arisen! Great program!!
Module 4:
1. Will use the HP Reveal to do my augmented reality experience, althought the link to get started isnt much use which is quite sad, just tells you the steps without going in depth. Oh well, google exists for a reason right
2. Okay,  
