# Object Biography
For my 3D Model project, I have decided to conduct a model for Orange Calcite which is an extremely abudant mineral that can be found in deposits all over the world mostly notably in Africa and some Asian countries. Orange Calcite is comprised of mainly calcium carbonate which gives it the distinctive "orange" colour. Other colours of this mineral do exist such as white,green, and yellow. 

There are many uses for Orange Calcite. One of the most notable uses for this mineral is the ability for it to be cut and sized-down in order to make incredible and elaborate pieces of jewelery such as neckalaces and earrings. According to a newspaper article written by the San Diego Union Tribune, documentation has shown that calcite has been used in the era of World War 2 and has been used specifically in machinery and various forms of weaponry. However, more notably, Orange Calcite is used as a spiritual element known to provide an abundance of happiness, the ability to form new and interesting ideas, as well as enhance creativity and reduce depression and anxiety when placed in your home.

This artificat was a personal gift to me brought by a family friend from a mining cave in the depths of Africa. In Africa, it is very common to find minerals such as Calcite, Diamonds, Lapis, and other types of minerals and/or ores. Calcite seas existed in Earth's history when the primary inorganic precipitate of calcium carbonate in marine waters was low-magnesium calcite (lmc), as opposed to the aragonite and high-magnesium calcite (hmc) precipitated today. This was a product of the large meteor that struke the face of the earth over a million years ago. Since this meteor has a large repository of calcite, the mineral spread to the Earth's oceanic crust and thus, produced calicte seas. Over time, the calicte seas began to decrease and appeared in caves where small water repositories have bveen held, thus the reasoning why there can be so many found in limestones caves. 

This artificat is something that is part of the history of the earth and is something that helped shape the earth's oceans in order to provide the marine life and purity that it provides today. 


Module 2: For module 2 I decided to remix an Orange Calcite jar with the head of the Egyptian God Imsety, who is a protecter of the organs, more specifiaclly the liver. Imsety also provides individuals with protection from evil spritis and negative energ which is why the jar head is made of the mineral Calcite. I decided to use the canoptic jar model from SketchFab, and more specifiaclly the British Museum. The reasoning for this is because my original model of my calicte crystal was too "blochy" and extremely incoherent to create and remix something with it. I was hoping my original model was more clear so that I can be able to remix this into something interesting, I have tried but alas, it was apparent to me that this would not work out so I decided to find something similiar. 

As for what exactly I did with the remix was as follows. Since the God Imsety was a protector of the liver and internal organs I decided to remix this with something that would add some irony to the artificat. I decided to first of all, put the jar head on top of a human body so that hands and a torso could be added to the head. Next I took a model of a glass bottle and placed it in the hand of the now "humanized" canoptic jar head. This is ironic because since this god protects the liver, and alchohol (to an extent) destroys the liver, it is therefore ironic in thaty fashion and something I thought was clever and also fun but while still making things relate. 
